Class Tweakers: Introduction & Access Widening (#517)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/classtweaker/accesswidening.md

---
title: Access Widening
description: Learn how to use access wideners from class tweaker files.
authors-nogithub:
  - glitch
  - lightningtow
  - siglong
authors:
  - Ayutac
  - cassiancc
  - cootshk
  - Earthcomputer
  - florensie
  - froyo4u
  - haykam821
  - hYdos
  - kb-1000
  - kcrca
  - liach
  - lmvdz
  - matjojo
  - MildestToucan
  - modmuss50
  - octylFractal
  - OroArmor
  - T3sT3ro
  - Technici4n
  - UpcraftLP
  - YTG1234
---

Access widening is a type of [class tweaking](../classtweaker) used to loosen the access limits of classes, methods and fields. This includes making them public, extendable and/or mutable.

> To access fields or methods, it can be an alternative to [accessor mixins](https://wiki.fabricmc.net/tutorial:mixin_accessors),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When accessing fields or methods, it can be an alternative to [accessor mixins](https://wiki.fabricmc.net/tutorial:mixin_accessors),
```

> but there are two situations where [accessors](https://wiki.fabricmc.net/tutorial:mixin_accessors) are insufficient and access widening is necessary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but there are two situations where accessors are insufficient and access widening is necessary:
```

- Needing to access a (package) private class

> - Needing to override a final method or subclass a final class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you need to access a `private` or a `package` class
- If you need to override a `final` method, or subclass a `final` class.
```

Access widener entries start with one of three directive keywords to specify the type of modification to apply.

### Accessible {#accessible}

`accessible` can target classes, methods and fields:

- Fields and Classes are made public.
- Methods are made public, and final if originally private.

Making a method or field accessible also makes its class accessible.

### Extendable {#extendable}

`extendable` can target classes and methods:

- Classes are made public and non-final
- Methods are made protected and non-final

Making a method extendable also makes its class extendable.

### Mutable {#mutable}

`mutable` can make a field non-final.

To make a private final field both accessible and mutable, you must make two separate entries in the file.

### Transitive Directives {#transitive-directives}

In order to expose certain access widener changes to mods depending on yours, you prefix the relevant directives with `transitive-*`:

```txt:no-line-numbers
transitive-accessible
transitive-extendable
transitive-mutable
```

## Specifying Targets {#specifying-targets}

For class tweaking, classes use their [internal names](../mixins/bytecode#class-names) and

> fields or methods must specify their name along with their [bytecode descriptor](../mixins/bytecode#field-and-method-descriptors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For class tweaking, classes use their [internal names](../mixins/bytecode#class-names). For fields and methods you must specify their class name, their name, and their [bytecode descriptor](../mixins/bytecode#field-and-method-descriptors).
```

> The names of targets should match your current mappings. Note that constructor methods are always named `<init>`, and always return void.

Reviewer: Do we need to specify this, since only mojmap is supported?
And, regarding constructors, this is already specified in the Bytecode page linked previously.

```suggestion
::: tip

The names of targets need to correspond to your current mappings.

:::
```

Reviewer 2: We only provide docs for Mojmap, but there's no reason this page cannot be used on other mappings, and I think it's especially useful for people coming from other loaders where this may not be the case (e.g. Forge)

### Classes {#classes}

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / extendable>    class    <className>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:classes:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

### Methods {#methods}

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / extendable>    method    <className>    <methodName>    <methodDescriptor>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:methods:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

### Fields {#fields}

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / mutable>    field    <className>    <methodName>    <methodDescriptor>
```

Example:

> @[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:fields:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

Reviewer: These can be tabs. I'll send a committable `suggestion` here soon.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
::: tabs

== Classes

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / extendable>    class    <className>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:classes:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

== Methods

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / extendable>    method    <className>    <methodName>    <methodDescriptor>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:methods:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

== Fields

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / mutable>    field    <className>    <methodName>    <methodDescriptor>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:fields:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

:::
````

## Generating Entries {#generating-entries}

> Manually writing access widener entries is prone to human error and time-consuming. This section goes over tools that simplify a part of the process by allowing you to generate and copy entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing access widener entries manually is time-consuming and prone to human error. Let's look at tools that simplify a part of the process by allowing you to generate and copy entries.
```

### mcsrc.dev {#mcsrc-dev}

> Available for all versions with an [unobfuscated](../migrating-mappings/index#whats-going-on-with-mappings) jar, namely 1.21.11 and above,

Reviewer: This article is for 1.21.11; it rubs me wrong once again to document history in the docs. It's fine I guess

Author: This isn't as much about documenting the history of mcsrc and unobf as much as it is to inform the reader on what versions mcsrc can be used on.
The article may be written for 1.21.11 because that happens to be the latest MC version at the time of writing, but the tool doesn't depend on any given MC version, meaning readers that are trying to learn about access widening for a 1.21.1 project may still be pointed to it. They should be aware of what versions mcsrc.dev is available for to avoid confusion.

[mcsrc](https://mcsrc.dev) allows you to decompile and navigate Minecraft source in the browser and copy Mixin, access widener or access transformer targets to clipboard.

> On 1.21.11, the names of classes, methods and fields on [mcsrc](https://mcsrc.dev) will align with [Mojang Mappings](../migrating-mappings/index#mappings).

Reviewer: ~~This is a repetition of line 128. I say we remove that, and keep this.~~

> To copy an access widener entry, first navigate to the class which you want to modify, and right click on your target to open the popup menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To copy an access widener entry, first navigate to the class which you want to modify, and right-click on your target to open the popup menu.
```

> ![mcsrc right clicking on target](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcsrc-right-click-on-aw-target.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Right-clicking on a target in mcsrc](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcsrc-right-click-on-aw-target.png)
```

Then, click on `Copy Class Tweaker / Access Widener`, and a confirmation should appear at the top of the page.

> ![mcsrc aw copy confirmation](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcsrc-aw-copy-confirmation.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![AW copy confirmation on mcsrc](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcsrc-aw-copy-confirmation.png)
```

You can then paste the entry in your class tweaker file.

### Minecraft Development Plugin (IntelliJ IDEA) {#mcdev-plugin}

> The Minecraft Development Plugin, also known as MCDev, is an IntelliJ IDEA plugin to assist in various aspects of Minecraft mod development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Minecraft Development Plugin](../getting-started/intellij-idea/setting-up#installing-idea-plugins), also known as MCDev, is an IntelliJ IDEA plugin to assist in various aspects of Minecraft mod development.
```

> This section will show its ability to copy access widener entries to clipboard from the decompiled source target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, it lets you copy access widener entries from the decompiled source target to the clipboard.
```

> To copy an access widener entry, first navigate to the class which you want to modify, and right click on your target to open the popup menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To copy an access widener entry, first navigate to the class which you want to modify, and right-click on your target to open the popup menu.
```

> ![mcdev right clicking on target](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-right-click-on-aw-target.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Right clicking on a target with MCDev](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-right-click-on-aw-target.png)
```

Then, click on `Copy / Paste Special` and `AW Entry`.

> ![mcdev copy paste special](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-copy-paste-special-menu.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Copy/Paste special with MCDev](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-copy-paste-special-menu.png)
```

A confirmation should now pop up on the element you right-clicked.

> ![mcdev aw copy confirmation](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-aw-copy-confirmation.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![AW copy confirmation with MCDev](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-aw-copy-confirmation.png)
```

You can then paste the entry in your class tweaker file.

### Linkie {#linkie}

> [Linkie](https://linkie.shedaniel.dev) is a website to browse and translate between mappings. It also provides access widener entries for the class, method or field you're viewing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Linkie](https://linkie.shedaniel.dev) is a website that allows you to browse and translate across mappings. It also provides access widener entries for the class, method or field you're viewing.
```

First, make sure you have the correct version and mappings selected on the menu on the left:

> ![linkie version and mappings selection](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/linkie-version-mappings-select.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Correct version and mappings selected on Linkie](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/linkie-version-mappings-select.png)
```

Then, search for the element you want to modify, and the access widener entry will be listed as `AW` under the result:

> ![linkie search results](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/linkie-search-results.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A search result in Linkie](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/linkie-search-results.png)
```

You can copy it and then paste the entry in your class tweaker file.

## Applying Changes {#applying-changes}

> To see your changes applied, you must refresh your gradle project [regenerate sources](../getting-started/generating-sources). The targeted elements should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see your changes applied, you must refresh your Gradle project by [regenerating sources](../getting-started/generating-sources). The elements you targeted should
```

> have their access limits modified appropriately. If modifications do not appear, you can try [validating the file](../classtweaker/index#validating-the-file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have their access limits modified accordingly. If modifications do not appear, consider [validating the file](../classtweaker/index#validating-the-file)
```

> and see if any errors appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and checking if any errors appear.
```

> The modified targets can then be used without any additional steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Fields and Classes are made public.
- Methods are made public, and final if originally private.

Making a method or field accessible also makes its class accessible.

### Extendable {#extendable}

`extendable` can target classes and methods:

- Classes are made public and non-final
- Methods are made protected and non-final

Making a method extendable also makes its class extendable.

### Mutable {#mutable}

`mutable` can make a field non-final.

To make a private final field both accessible and mutable, you must make two separate entries in the file.

### Transitive Directives {#transitive-directives}

In order to expose certain access widener changes to mods depending on yours, you prefix the relevant directives with `transitive-*`:

```txt:no-line-numbers
transitive-accessible
transitive-extendable
transitive-mutable
```

## Specifying Targets {#specifying-targets}

For class tweaking, classes use their [internal names](../mixins/bytecode#class-names) and
fields or methods must specify their name along with their [bytecode descriptor](../mixins/bytecode#field-and-method-descriptors).

::: tip

The names of targets need to correspond to your current mappings.

:::

::: tabs

> == Classes {#classes}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Classes
```

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / extendable>    class    <className>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:classes:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

> == Methods {#methods}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Methods
```

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / extendable>    method    <className>    <methodName>    <methodDescriptor>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:methods:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

> == Fields {#fields}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Fields
```

Format:

```txt:no-line-numbers
<accessible / mutable>    field    <className>    <fieldName>    <fieldDescriptor>
```

Example:

@[code lang=txt:no-line-numbers transcludeWith=:::accesswidening-examples:fields:::](@/reference/latest/src/main/resources/example-mod.classtweaker)

:::

## Generating Entries {#generating-entries}

Manually writing access widener entries is time-consuming and prone to human error. Let's look at tools that simplify a part of the process by allowing you to generate and copy entries.

### mcsrc.dev {#mcsrc-dev}

> Available for all versions with an [unobfuscated](../migrating-mappings/index#whats-going-on-with-mappings) jar, namely 1.21.11 and above,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Available for all versions with an [unobfuscated JAR](../migrating-mappings/index#whats-going-on-with-mappings), namely 1.21.11 and above,
```

To copy an access widener entry, first navigate to the class which you want to modify, and right-click on your target to open the popup menu.

![Right-clicking on a target in mcsrc](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcsrc-right-click-on-aw-target.png)

Then, click on `Copy Class Tweaker / Access Widener`, and a confirmation should appear at the top of the page.

![AW copy confirmation on mcsrc](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcsrc-aw-copy-confirmation.png)

You can then paste the entry in your class tweaker file.

### Minecraft Development Plugin (IntelliJ IDEA) {#mcdev-plugin}

The [Minecraft Development Plugin](../getting-started/intellij-idea/setting-up#installing-idea-plugins), also known as MCDev, is an IntelliJ IDEA plugin to assist in various aspects of Minecraft mod development.
For example, it lets you copy access widener entries from the decompiled source target to the clipboard.

To copy an access widener entry, first navigate to the class which you want to modify, and right-click on your target to open the popup menu.

> ![Right clicking on a target with MCDev](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-right-click-on-aw-target.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Right-clicking on a target with MCDev](/assets/develop/classtweaker/accesswidening/mcdev-right-click-on-aw-target.png)
```
